Preflight Script - product update (#5744)
graphql-hive/console: packages/web/docs/src/pages/product-updates/2024-10-28-preflight-script/index.mdx

---
title: Automatically run custom authentication processes in the Laboratory
description:
  Useful for handling authentication flows like OAuth, where you may need to refresh an access token
date: 2024-10-28
authors: [dimitri]
---

import { Callout } from '@theguild/components'

We've added Preflight Scripts to Laboratory! These scripts allow you to automatically run custom
authentication processes before executing your GraphQL operations. They're especially useful for
handling authentication flows like OAuth, where you may need to refresh an access token. Let's
explore how it works.

export function Caption({ children }) {
  return <p className="text-center text-sm italic">{children}</p>
}

> ## Configuring Your Preflight Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring Preflight Script
```

Clicking on the `Edit` button will open Modal where you can edit, test and save your script in
database.

<Callout type="warning">
  **Note**: Your script will stored as plain text in our database, don't put any secrets there, use
  Environment variables editor for it! The preflight script is accessible to all members of your
  organization, but only users with access to target Settings can edit the script code.
</Callout>

You can use any JavaScript syntax (including top-level `await`) in the Script editor. Getting and
Setting environment variables is done by accessing the `environment` property on the `lab` global
variable.

```js
// get myKey variable from the Environment variables editor
lab.environment.get('myKey')
// set myKey variable to the Environment variables editor (persistent in localStorage)
lab.environment.set('myKey', myValue)
```

![Demo how to get and set environment variables](./get-and-set-env-vars.png)

<Caption>Demo how to get and set environment variables</Caption>

## CryptoJS

Additionally, you can access the CryptoJS library by accessing the `CryptoJS` property on the `lab`
global variable.

![CryptoJS](./crypto-js.png)

<Caption>CryptoJS</Caption>

> ## Access to Global Variables and Errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Global Variables and Errors
```

> Access to global variables such as `this`, `window` or `globalThis` are restricted, errors which
> will throw from a script will be visible in Console Output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access to global variables such as `this`, `window` or `globalThis` is restricted. Errors thrown by the script will be displayed in Console Output.
```

![Demo restricted access to global variables](./unable-to-access-global-variables.png)

<Caption>Demo restricted access to global variables</Caption>

> ## Using Environment Variables in Headers Editor

Reviewer: making it short
```suggestion
## Using Environment Variables
```

To use your environment variables in GraphiQL headers editor wraps environment keys with
double-curly braces, e.g.:

```json filename="Headers" /{{myEnvVar}}/
{
  "Authorization": "Bearer {{myEnvVar}}"
}
```

![Replace syntax in action](./replace-syntax.png)

<Caption>Replace syntax is done via double open/closed curly braces, e.g. `{{ myEnvVar }}`</Caption>

> ## Summary

Reviewer: imo let's remove the summary section. We don't do it on any other post and this isn't very long where we need to summarize what is discussed up top. This copy can be useful for crafting announcement tweets.
